OKTA-732673 OIN Wizard with SCIM (#5102)
okta/okta-developer-docs: packages/@okta/vuepress-site/docs/guides/submit-oin-app/main/index.md

---
title: Submit an integration with the OIN Wizard
meta:
  - name: description
    content: Learn how to submit your integration to the Okta Integration Network (OIN) team for publication. The submission task is performed in the Okta Admin Console through the OIN Wizard.
layout: Guides
---

Learn how to submit an OIDC, SAML 2.0, or SCIM 2.0 integration to the Okta Integration Network (OIN) using the OIN Wizard.

---

#### What you need

* An [Okta Developer Edition org](https://developer.okta.com/signup/). The OIN Wizard is only available in Okta Developer Edition orgs.
* An admin user in the Okta Developer Edition org with either the super admin or the app and org admin roles

> * A functional integration based on the [Build a Single Sign-On integration](/docs/guides/build-sso-integration/) or [Build a SCIM provisioning integration](/docs/guides/scim-provisioning-integration-overview/main/) guide

Author: you can have an integration with both SCIM and SSO

> * A functional integration based on the [Build a Single Sign-On integration](/docs/guides/build-sso-integration/) or [Build a SCIM provisioning integration](/docs/guides/scim-provisioning-integration-overview/main/) guide

Reviewer: Fair enough - but this has an "or" in there, suggesting that it's either one or the other. 

You could do maybe:
A functional integration. This can be based on the [Build SSO] guide, the [Build SCIM] guide, or both types.

* [OpenID Connect (OIDC)](https://openid.net/connect/)

* [Security Assertion Markup Language (SAML) 2.0](http://docs.oasis-open.org/security/saml/Post2.0/sstc-saml-tech-overview-2.0.html)

* [System for Cross-domain Identity Management (SCIM) 2.0](https://scim.cloud)

> **Notes:**
    > * SWA app integrations are no longer accepted for publication in the OIN catalog. However, the OIN team still maintains existing SWA apps.
    > * There are protocol-specific limitations on integrations in the OIN. See [OIN limitations](/docs/guides/submit-app-prereq/main/#oin-limitations).

## Start a submission

Review the [OIN submission requirements](/docs/guides/submit-app-prereq) before you start your submission. There are artifacts and technical details that you need to provide during the submission process.

> > **Note:** As a best practice, add two or three extra admin users in your Okta org to manage the integration. This ensures that your team can access the integration for updates in the future. See [Add users manually](https://help.okta.com/okta_help.htm?type=oie&id=ext-usgp-add-users) and ensure that the super admin, or the app and org admin roles are assigned to your admin users.

Author: logic is (super admin) OR (app admin AND org admin)

> > **Note:** As a best practice, add two or three extra admin users in your Okta org to manage the integration. This ensures that your team can access the integration for updates in the future. See [Add users manually](https://help.okta.com/okta_help.htm?type=oie&id=ext-usgp-add-users) and ensure that the super admin, or the app and org admin roles are assigned to your admin users.

Reviewer: OK - so to separate these out and clarify the logic, I'd suggest the following:
```suggestion
> **Note:** As a best practice, add two or three extra admin users in your Okta org to manage the integration. This ensures that your team can access the integration for updates in the future. See [Add users manually](https://help.okta.com/okta_help.htm?type=oie&id=ext-usgp-add-users) and ensure that your admin users have the app and org admin roles assigned or the super admin role assigned.
```

> > **Note:** As a best practice, add two or three extra admin users in your Okta org to manage the integration. This ensures that your team can access the integration for updates in the future. See [Add users manually](https://help.okta.com/okta_help.htm?type=oie&id=ext-usgp-add-users) and ensure that the super admin, or the app and org admin roles are assigned to your admin users.

Author: I think I'll separate these two sentences. Probably championing least-privilege access.

`*` Required properties

#### <StackSnippet snippet="protocol-name" inline/> tests

<StackSnippet snippet="protocol-test-flow" />
<br>

Click **Test your integration** to save your test information and begin the integration testing phase.

## Test your integration

The OIN Wizard journey includes the **Test integration** experience page to help you configure and test your integration within the same org before submission. This page functions in a top-down approach, where you need to do the following:

1. [Generate instances for testing](#generate-instances-for-testing). You need to create an app integration instance to test each protocol that your integration supports.
    * For SSO integrations, configure SSO and assign test users on the test instance.
    * For SCIM integrations, configure provisioning and map user profile attributes on the test instance.

1. Test your integration.
   * For SSO integrations, test the required flows in the [OIN Submission Tester](#oin-submission-tester) with your generated test instances. Fix any test failures from the OIN Submission Tester, then regenerate the test instance (if necessary) and retest.

>    * For SCIM integrations, execute the [Runscope CRUD tests](#runscope-crud-tests) and the [Okta manual integration tests](#manual-okta-scim-integration-tests) with your generated test instance.

Author: Ack. I'll rewrite this part. Maybe use singular for both?

All required tests in the OIN Submission Tester must have passed within 48 hours of submitting your integration.

### Test your SCIM integration

You need to run three sets of tests for SCIM integrations:

1. [SCIM API specification tests](/docs/guides/scim-provisioning-integration-prepare/main/#test-your-scim-api)

>     You need to first test your SCIM API service before you conduct Okta-SCIM integration tests. Okta provides you with a SCIM API specification test suite to execute in Runscope. See [Test your SCIM API](/docs/guides/scim-provisioning-integration-prepare/main/#test-your-scim-api) for instructions on how to run this test suite. Provide the test results URL in the **Link to Runscope spec test results** field when you submit your integration to the OIN.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    You need to test your SCIM API service before you conduct the Okta to SCIM integration tests. Okta provides you with a SCIM API specification test suite to execute in Runscope. See [Test your SCIM API](/docs/guides/scim-provisioning-integration-prepare/main/#test-your-scim-api). 
    When you submit your integration to the OIN, you need to provide the test results URL in the **Link to Runscope spec test results** field.
```

1. [Runscope create, read, update, and delete (CRUD) user profile tests](#runscope-crud-tests)

>     Provide the results URL from these tests in the **Link to Runscope CRUD test results** field when you submit your integration to the OIN.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    Enter the results URL from these tests in the **Link to Runscope CRUD test results** field when you submit your integration to the OIN.
```

1. [Manual Okta SCIM integration tests](#manual-okta-scim-integration-tests)

>     You're required to certify that you've completed these tests when you submit your integration to the OIN.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    You must certify that you've completed these tests when you submit your integration to the OIN.
```

1. Download the [Okta SCIM 2.0 CRUD Test](/standards/SCIM/SCIMFiles/Okta-SCIM-20-CRUD-Test.json) file.

   This CRUD test file is built for the [BlazeMeter Runscope](https://www.runscope.com/) API monitoring tool. If you don't have a Runscope account, you can sign up with a [free trial to Runscope](https://www.runscope.com/okta) for Okta developers.
1. From Runscope, click **Import Test**.
1. Select **API Monitoring Tests** as the import format.
1. Click **Choose File** and select the **Okta SCIM 2.0 CRUD Test** file.
1. Click **Import API Test**. In this new test bucket, click **Editor** from the left-navigation menu.
1. Click **Test Settings** and then click **Initial Variables**.
1. Add the following variables with values that match your SCIM integration:
    * `oktaOrgUrl`: The base URL for your Okta org. Include the `https://` prefix.
    * `oktaAppId`: The unique identifier that's assigned to your test app instance. You can see this value in the **App Embed Link** panel under the **General** tab for your instance.

    <div class="three-quarter border">

    ![The browser bar showing the oktaOrgUrl location.](/img/oin/scim_crud-test-identifiers.png)

    </div>

>     * `oktaToken`: The Okta API token used by Runscope to connect to Okta APIs. You can generate an API token inside your Okta org. See [Create an API token](/docs/guides/create-an-api-token/main/).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    * `oktaToken`: The Okta API token used by Runscope to connect to Okta APIs. You can generate an API token inside your org. See [Create an API token](/docs/guides/create-an-api-token/main/).
```

>     * `oktaToken`: The Okta API token used for Runscope to connect to Okta APIs. You can generate an API token inside your Okta org. See [Create an API token](/docs/guides/create-an-api-token/main/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    * `oktaToken`: The Okta API token used by Runscope to connect to Okta APIs. You can generate an API token inside your Okta org. See [Create an API token](/docs/guides/create-an-api-token/main/).
```

    * `SCIMUrl`: The base URL of the SCIM service. For example: `https://example.com/scim/v2`
    * `SCIMAuth`: The authorization token used to access your SCIM API. You can use the same authorization token you used to **Enable API integration** from [Generate an instance for <StackSnippet snippet="protocol-name" inline/>](#generate-an-instance-for).

      The following is an example of the Runscope variable values:

    <div class="three-quarter border">

    ![Sample values for CRUD test variables. Runscope initial variables](/img/oin/scim_crud-variables-d.png)

    </div>

1. Click **Test Settings** and then click **Initial Script**.
1. Copy the contents of the [Okta CRUD Initial Script](/standards/SCIM/SCIMFiles/Initial_Script_CRUD.txt) text file and paste into this Runscope console.
1. Click **Save & Run**.

##### Review Runscope test results

On the left of your Runscope page, the test appears in the **Recent Test Runs** section.

> 1. Click **View Progress** inside the **Recent Test Runs** section.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Click **View Progress** from the **Recent Test Runs** section.
```

> As the test suite runs, Runscope displays live updates of the test in progress. After the test suite completes execution, the main panel displays the results of your test.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As the test suite runs, Runscope displays live updates of the test in progress. After the test suite completes, the main panel displays the results of your test.
```

> 1. Click the name of each particular test case to see the test details. The details show you the **Request**, **Response**, and **Connection** information for each test.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Click a test case to see its **Request**, **Response**, and **Connection** information.
```

When you're satisfied with your Runscope CRUD test results, share your test results with Okta in the **Link to Runscope CRUD test results** field:

1. From your Runscope dashboard, open the test results that you want to share.
2. At the top of the test result, change the **Private | Shareable** toggle from **Private** to **Shareable**.
3. Copy the URL for the test result. The test results can be viewed in detail, but the test can't be edited or rerun by people outside of your team.

>     Example of test result URL:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Example of a test result URL:
```

    `https://www.runscope.com/radar/abcdefghijkl/m01nopq2-3456-7r8s-9012-t34567uvw890/history/123ef4gh-i567-89j0-1k2l-3m4n5o678901`.

> 1. Paste the test results URL to the **Link to Runscope CRUD test results** field in the OIN Wizard **Test integration** > **SCIM integration testing step** section.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Paste the test results URL into the **Link to Runscope CRUD test results** field in the OIN Wizard **Test integration** > **SCIM integration testing step** section.
```

1. Go to **Applications** > **Your OIN Integrations** in the Admin Console.
1. Click your published integration to update from the dashboard. Your published OIN submission appears in read-only mode.
1. From the **This integration is read-only** information box, click **Edit integration**.

>     > **Note:** If you open a submission in DRAFT status, it's not in read-only mode and the **Edit integration** option isn't available. Continue to edit your draft submission as a new submission. See [Start a submission](#start-a-submission).

Author: No worries. The **Edit integrations** only appears for read-only mode.

>     > **Note:** If you open a submission in DRAFT status, it's not in read-only mode and the **Edit integration** option isn't available. Continue to edit your draft submission as a new submission. See [Start a submission](#start-a-submission).

Reviewer: That seems weird that we would show them a button that isn't usable, but I am sure there's some design reasoning behind it. 👯

1. Click **Generate Instance** to create an instance required for the **CURRENT VERSION** from the **Required app instances** status box.

    See [Generate an instance for testing](#generate-an-instance-for) to create instances for your current submission.

>     > **Note:** There's a maximum of five active app instances allowed in a Developer Edition org. Deactivate any instances that you don't need for testing.

Author: Yep: historical reasons. I've been asked to add these notes in :-)
